oh you're such a bad man
yeah i did that intentionally yeah yeah
absolutely
not if you said something like when i'm
trying to get myself good at math like i
used the questions
oh four it's four it's always four it's
so cool i drew it out like a bunch and i
was like [__] this guy dude in the book
he talked about how he did it one of
these guys did it for like
so many days
actually i think it's actually five no
it's four no no it's totally forwarded
you can build any 2d shape
possible connected together and the
maximum number of
like points connected will only be four
like you can't ever have five
so the problem was not that you didn't
think there was no believe it was true
but you mean the white is true proof of
the complicated following when that's
not evolving it's about because you've
got to understand why why is it sounding
foreign
[Music]
death and that he increasingly did math
because he was worried i have less and
less time and i need to get closer and
closer to the solution because my
mission here on earth is to find that
book
and it's true
that's the same thing for me for
artificial general intelligence
about one o'clock and ron suggested that
you know they should go to bed and
intercept here's why i don't want to
sample vampire weekend
this is so much more underground when
you put the track credits paul hoffman
speaking about paul erdish you're in the
sample creds people like holy [__] dude
oh vampire weekend that's the show
it's cool i love vampire weekend oh paul
erdogan yeah okay okay hold on but first
of all we can combine two yeah of course
second of all
to me the goal
is so like every song has a certain like
power to it right like a
a scaler
um
and when someone for
where
the goal is to maximize the amount of
power that people hear right so like
obviously writing like a pretty shitty
song
and having a million people like listen
to it it might be about as you got to
slow down because i have my own sort of
internal my understanding of power
dynamics like this is more for me in
terms of like distributing any message
like the
but you can't attribute like
i
okay okay here's what it is to me
obviously distributing a message that
you believe to be true is rewarding i
take that as an axiom that like that
to truly connect your soul to and have a
message that is read by millions of
people is the desire of like so many
authors right
so all right i disagree i found a point
of view
because you don't have a message
necessarily like you can have a mission
but the idea that your message does not
evolve well but the the point is like
within just creating a song i go through
many iterations of other mental
processes making me rethink things like
in the creation of a single song i've
had many sort of i guess awakenings or
like change of heart so are you you're
making your music for you but to be
listened by other people that's the way
i view it right like well i have
initially started making it because i
wanted to listen to it yeah
only solely the only reason i put it
online was so that i could download on
my phone and not have to deal with huge
file sizes because bandcamp has his own
compression algorithm
that was the only reason
i mean also partially so that i could go
out
of that i think obviously the goal
is
bought through that like now i have all
this infrastructure i have so many
people producing basically for me or
attributed to me like so many like it's
really like it's just gonna come to a
head like i always just sort of took
that for granted though
that's interesting
but what if it only could come to a head
by selling out completely
well i'll still have a ton of like
you're guaranteed okay like if you don't
sell out it's not going to
happen and if you do so it's guaranteed
to happen i don't i don't tell that i go
and see that's very interesting no but
that's the thing it's like that's
because you view that there's still even
there's this
cost like a time cost yeah but also that
there's infinite routes to actually get
to the head to get to like yeah like
that's why now my github is popping like
the website's up like all all this stuff
like your website
it's a super chill website it loads
instantly all right [__]
yeah this is it amazon did how long
would it take for you to make your
website
super short amount of time like [__]
five minutes
but how
how long did it actually take uh
like a week what are lectures
like how about how many hours would you
say
uh five are these lectures that you know
just you wrote or gave right i don't
know
they're just things you liked on youtube
[Music]
but i really need to change this to and
i haven't i haven't actually just gone
and updated it um
but what i want to have this link to is
lectures is just going to go to the
thing is i wouldn't have my website be
just a routing place i don't want my i
don't want to design a website that's
lame i'm going to use all the other
infrastructure for me so that's why i
linked to bandcamp i linked to whatever
and i've started to use
this
like uh see sample l2 lectures i've
started to use this just like spotify
without with the caching systems because
it allows me to find good
lectures and then i would just link to
this one interesting
so you learn by lectures which is just
so different from it's the exact
opposite of how i learned what do you
mean like you learn through like video
and like sound
you read
i have to do
no i no i agree i i but the thing is
like
what constitutes doing like this gives
me something to be able to do like
otherwise i don't i don't i can't commit
it to like memory like if i have to
recall it for
any form of it like you say actually
yeah it's necessary but i don't
exam dude chill did you watch minute
physics yeah yeah i mean if they just he
just came out with a dope video honestly
is he the one with the minor screen
video
i don't know pink is just my screen but
this one is sick
we learned short stories brute force
everything
yeah i mean we don't have to watch this
this is 17. the goal of encryption let's
make it variable data in such a way that
no one uh
well the thing is they have a lot of
background sound let's just see but if
we could sample something with a very
distinctive sound
or something let me just like let me go
to myself
what's up guys michael here spit on me
yeah exactly that's what it is here i
have like we said that'd be sick
i have some cool things to sample
oh
yo what if we made a song using
like
recordings of like very famous alumni
from new chicago yeah that's a bunch i
was gonna sample like
uh
where's that guy this guy
larry mecca honey
he's like the main like social sciences
head
you don't
[Music]
wait genuinely that actually kind of
freaks me out the idea that you're not
able to take sounds and figure out how
you can manipulate them very easily and
make them sound good
that sounds sick there's a reason i
saved that
that's awesome dude i would pitch that
down and add reverb to it distortion
you'd make it probably
a
high pass filter to it you always had an
ipad i love it you really like samsung
what you like basic music like not a lot
of eyes
but yeah you can put an eye bass filter
out but the pat the fact is that it
mainly was just because it wasn't
recorded perfectly but like this could
totally be used oh i was going to sample
this can we sample this
this is where i'm from and 8102 is a vta
down to sample something from where are
you from
if you're not writing
county transit now
that is sick that's really
that's the weird transit spirit we've
got 23 express routes to serve you if
you haven't caught our spirit yet now is
the best time ever to express yourself
on county transit
[Music]
all right this is the one we don't need
to use it for the music but you realize
sampling doesn't need to even be for
anything just to like add little
textures and random absolutely
absolutely
like anderson pock does that a lot
what's a good person that i that i think
you probably wouldn't know that wait i
was gonna do something was it oh yeah
hey start making something dude
[Music]
oh you're gonna start with last time no
no use this instrument
okay
the collision dude think about this
though like more musically i never wait
stop playing look at me all right
collision
tension
analog operator these these names
actually are very interesting and i
hadn't really pieced it together tension
tension's like a string you're exactly
plucking yeah
here well all the instruments are here
yeah that's actually helpful for you to
understand like contextualize what
sounds it can be made from there's so
many there's so many parts remembering
what everything no exactly it's like
almost impossible no you gotta you gotta
find the perfectly predictable
i wasn't talking to you about this i was
talking a lot about this but like i i
more and more recently i not even well
recently but in my life just i've been
spending more time figuring out like
where i have what is that uh thing
in like psychology when you have two
truths that are in conflict with each
other but you still have these pillars
of thought built up on these completely
contradictory thoughts it's like uh
uh contradicting axioms
yeah yeah but it there's a word for like
someone who's just like obviously like
their logic is completely
critical it's not hypocrite it's a
dude that is gonna [__] with me because
it's such a prevalent term point being
though like i've been spending a lot of
time just making sure like my model of
the world like all truths that i know in
all logic can be
uh used as a basis for ascertaining and
judging things that new data that comes
into me because the problem is if you
have like this pillar of truth and then
you have this completely like the this
should be connected together because
these this is true and this is true but
you think that this is false so you
build another pyramid that's ridiculous
dude you had but now if i have like the
idea that you like believe that like the
world is bad because of gays and you're
you love your son because your son is
gay or like he happens to be gay but you
still love him like those things are
contradictory and you have
whatever that word is
uh like social cog like uh uh
social like dissonance yeah
cognitive dissonance it's cognitive
dissonance and when you have this sort
and i've been really
making effort just when i notice things
like to to i'll do this and i'll do the
merge sort and i'll swap and i'll start
to figure out what all the implications
of what i thought prior to were about
this new truth that i realized was wrong
because when we're taking in data all
the time and if we're just piling onto
our old ones and not really thinking
about how
yeah i mean you love physics and math so
it really all stuff comes from physics
and math you have math and physics and
chemistry and you build up to like
photoshop and [__] but the idea that you
know that light exists a certain way and
that we've built screens that don't
actually work with the traditional
primary colors but use rgb you know a
question that i've
puzzled them for a while
so clearly
at least to me clearly the value of a
life is at least somewhat tied to how
long that person has been alive and how
much time they have left oh that's
interesting so
creating a function that relates those
two to the value of someone's life you
know and like for example
a fetus conceived one like a day after
conception right i i define life by day
after conception but i don't define the
value of life just inherently only all
lives have equal value so
like
what's like maybe like a like a a three
month old like
since conception
i don't know what you call it like a
fetus not even a fetus
like
you probably want to save one
five-year-old child over yeah i don't
know
you know i totally agree thousand
miscarriages for one
like well i mean oh wait i don't know
what i'm just saying like the idea that
you you're trying to maximize for life
lived
but not necessarily because there's also
it um based on like communal like
someone that it is
experiences of scale like um when an ant
feasts do you think that they are
equally as happy as us when we are
hungry and we eat
[Music]
i mean i don't really think you can
compare the happinesses
why not
because
like happiness is very much based on the
individual and but so really what you're
trying to say is we're more we're
smarter than the and the ants stupid and
they can't enjoy food as much as we can
right i mean that's what it boils down
to we have more neurons
but isn't it of scale though the idea
that based on some ways that you can
order like you're trying to order
happiness i don't know if you can
necessarily order habit i don't think it
abides by the
the
uh yeah i mean i i'm obviously like
going out on a limb and this is really
more much more of a spiritual kind of
thing than i'm saying but like
i don't know just thinking about kind of
our
potential huge ignorance for thinking oh
we are just so much [__] smarter than
these ants we enjoy food so much i think
we probably experience like much less
joy than ants when ants
actually probably ants experience more
joy
i'd say ants probably experience more
joy than we do
overall or just like in that in that
moment because they do very few things
yeah please thank you
like they really want to like bring food
to queen queen makes babies like their
thought process is so
directly tied but but i guess the on the
other spectrum though you could totally
imagine a zookeeper for us that is just
way smarter than us and we just can't
even tell
like we have no i no
cognizance of it going on
and there's just this [__]
species above us that is just like way
[__] smarter than us and they're like
these guys think they enjoy
food yeah
experience life like meaning out of
things like we think ants don't really
meaningless right like
that's what i'm saying about scale
like i'm not necessarily saying
happiness in general sadness in general
all of it the whole life
the whole of it
it's a tough question though because
then it's like are we really like
reincarnated and [__]
you think i don't know
julius thinks so
yeah well the fact that they were all
one
all right
can you close that door actually yeah
can you hear the difference in that
though totally not not an echo but that
thing makes noise sometimes it's kind of
early
all right
let's record another one
can you click new and then record
where's record the circle
[Music]
so
so now what i want you to do is load
that into a midi track put it into
slicing and then start sampling
okay so it's just correct i don't
exactly know how to do it this audio
haul i think dude put it into a midi
track right
um
yeah the only thing is how do you move
audio clips
to okay wait maybe you could like
so what you want is probably duplicates
right with duplicates no duplicate just
makes it a new wait do maybe wait
wait oh no select okay now
i don't know if you can i think you need
a mouse thing
i actually think you need a mouse yeah
you have to be able to right click it
yeah great no no you just need to drag
that click click that one with the green
and just drag it oh wait so click back
on track three midi
all right now that see it's selected now
you can just drag this into there
what this one yeah and just drag it in
there
oh how do you make the midi track itself
uh ctrl shift t or just add track i mean
control shift d makes a blank midi track
and then you just drag this to there and
now this midi track is here and
now it's there because this is the audio
slicing because no because you said
this is a this is an audio track dude
look at this
this one's an audio track right because
you can record from midi is a midi check
that's how you tell the difference well
i mean there's a ton of ways but like
this is one of the key differences that
this you're going to record notes on
here you actually have to record like a
mic because audio you can't record from
this thing because it doesn't produce
any sound itself yeah
it only produces commands it's all
digital baby
[Music]
but make it like i mean let's change it
to through and and then you could turn
down the pitch put distortion on it but
the point is that like i i didn't even
think about what i was playing i just
like yeah played one scale but you'll be
able to make everything from that
because you have all the yeah i'm just
not gonna playing scales
wait well i don't know if that that
wasn't my point my point is that you're
gonna be able to like even though i
didn't know what
like i didn't know the melody that was
right i still
know that if i resample it i can come up
with more ideas overall because the
order is flipped up and the process has
changed
i'm really high
really
i mean i'm like like i said i like it
this is the first time in a super long
time where i just haven't smoked up
until night
like i'm usually just high all day
use your phone ringing oh yeah that's
the text from malaysia
all right let me do some stuff though
all right i'm
yeah but i'm going to add the amp first
or actually i'm going to add a
saturation let's let's
normally add the amp first
i'm i'm trying doing b repeat and phasor
first just okay that's dope yeah
let me see how do i
oh wait how do i do this again okay so i
move
no no no no no
i wanna
i wanna move this
all right yeah fine i'll just look it up
[Music]
swap effect order push 2
ooh chi chi would be helpful actually
that's kind of cool
yeah look at this dude you got a cheat
sheet
a lot oh it's for ableton 10 too that's
what it is for what everything does
well this guy just made it i didn't see
this i usually track this all the time
oh wow that's great
all right let me save the actual image
though
wow you can actually do this
you can whoa
wow
oh wait this is just a live 10 sheet no
no i'm a [__] idiot what yeah i'm in
it
well actually that'd be helpful for you
though but like
actually yeah you you you would enjoy
reading that because you would realize
the language and the terminology like
way better
like you know like everyone always says
dude they're like oh i went to the smash
tournament and i realized just how bad i
was like those kind of things where you
learn a new language you realize there's
this whole culture around this thing
that's you always want to go for that
you always want to see how out of your
element you are
yeah there's that curve where it's like
oh i think i'm [__] out and then it's
not it's
xkecd
oh i love that one yeah yeah totally
um
okay yeah so you could you should read
this but what i want to do
is [__] swap to
i want to swap two effects
put it move that [__] thing behind
stupid
all like
you can still play this though
[Music]
can i do one thing wait wait where's the
let's have the beat repeating
the b repeat is on me you just gotta
change it i'm just gonna yeah
[Music]
um
wait can we try something else
after this can we
try loading samples from online because
there's a lot of yeah
for at least a drum kit this time let me
see all right fine i'm just gonna
download [__]
um
[Music]
um do you want to try using muse net
how do i go to the is it this
trigger gate
trigger
okay warpers 8 bars reset slices
okay
that's it
envelopes
filter
[Music]
so
oh let me close all my [__] tabs
[Music]
oh i remember what i was gonna do dude i
was gonna get youtube download
[Music]
foreign
um
remember what i said about speed though
like try to like once you just dial like
trying to perfect something you're doing
something wrong all right i went back
and went back
[Music]
how do i get back to the device devices
okay
[Music]
um
i definitely have this
how many steps is a perfect fifth
uh
[Music]
seven
okay yeah
right so minus -10
yeah
[Music]
wait i'm not really hearing this beat
repeat at all
oh yeah
[Music]
all right cool
no you definitely don't want it with
minus 10 dude the reason why why is
because think about it oh yeah minus
seven minus seven minus seven no no even
that because
i'm gonna be playing multiple notes and
that's gonna be playing over the next
note that plays because there's a little
bit delay
that means that a minus seven compared
to what my next note is it's going to be
at a scale so really you want to go
octaves the first intuition is for me is
always octaves
because then how is yeah 12 yeah always
and
but you know that an octave is double
frequency right
like when you double the frequency you
double the octave oh really yeah you go
up in octave i mean you go up and up
really
and the ratio of um you know the ratio
frequency from a sound to its perfect
fifth is uh three two
the these ratios are crazy dude look up
like the ratio of a sound so it's
perfect for look at look up wait look
perfect fifth ratio or like frequency
ratio it's like a definite number it's
not like a weird thing
yes
isn't that crazy
they have all this stuff but let's go
like yeah wait
where's just like intervals
[Music]
okay let's go back there i need to go
back actually
why what are you doing
i'm trying to get youtube down
all right i have a call felicia in 10
minutes by the way
all right i'm starting to stop watch
this okay uh
[Music]
is it repeating
it's not repeating right
[Music]
it's too much
yeah
[Music]
what the [__]
maybe it's too low
[Music]
oh
that's so weird right oh there we go
that's so sick
it's just constantly going
that's not playing at all no no no
some of these effects take a minute of
like
oh pissed again
[Music]
what the heck
oh yeah okay so if i turn this down
right now i remember how this [__] works
that's cool but it's supposed to like
the point is when in your experience
when you click this it just always it
goes forever right so ideally yeah it
turns on sometimes so on the zero it
should go
so like
[Music]
the total length of all repetitions in
16 minutes
all right so i'm gonna set it to a lot
the size
[Music]
will be captured and repeated for the
set of the get gate length large grid
values create rhythmic loops and small
values create sonic artifacts if you
have 125 that's pretty it's pretty yeah
that's right okay
and then very a certain variation is 0
so that we know what's going on
wait i think 1 6 is better
oh cool wait trigger mode creates
variations of the grid when repetitions
are triggered
auto mode forced to be repeatable i
didn't even know they had this dude
that's insane
my auto mode forces beat repeat to what
well it's not even that cool [__]
the most complex
i think that's new we should try that
idea
wait why isn't that why can't
well i guess it has to be playing
oh no no you have to have repeat on and
you turn the chance down yeah
is that right
yeah
yeah it's working
that's cool i mean like it's just coming
up with really random things yeah it's
chance is a bit too high
well you turned variation to zero
[Music]
why is it not playing it is
wait keep repeating
[Music]
i changed
oh but you'd have to make that grid less
than the interval otherwise it would
never repeat right
that's logical wait why because
otherwise we try to repeat twice the
length but you'd already started a new
one
[Music]
we turn off the pistol
i feel like i just treat the grid
[Music]
zero
oh
that's weird dude
wait what's this gate do it's gonna be
sick
oh yeah okay
that's obvious i don't know why
[Music]
which how's that distinct from interval
though
interval defines how often b repeat
captures new material oh
a word guy now i completely understand
the picture
[Music]
and we're just going to do
what i want to wait the chance is too
high that's the problem
oh
[Music]
the softer curve is so hard
wow that's sick
[Music]
what am i trying to get oh yeah i want
this off
[Music]
oh i'm checking out the saturator i'm
curious what the different knobs are
dude look look remember what i was
saying about this is so obvious like
look
[Music]
yeah what i was saying about how you
have all these waves this is how it
decides to change the slope such that it
cuts it off when because this point
when it gets very inwards it because
it's less you're giving a sine wave
this is how it's getting distorted so
when i go to a hard curve it's basically
a sine wave with a very high slope
you can but what you want to do is you
actually want to play with saturated you
got to do this
[Music]
so this is the
this is super important
[Music]
i am
do
[Music]
so
oh wait what the [__] oh yeah we were
never using that one i i get it
what'd you do
but wait why are you meeting everything
no not
wait we never had a clip though we never
actually yeah we didn't write a clip we
never made a clue yeah
[Music]
yeah click solo
um
[Music]
i got it
do
[Music]
one two three
i'm
[Music]
wait what'd you do i made it slower
don't do that i was timing
[Music]
don't do that it's not cool
i'm really in my element right now yeah
but when i'm trying to figure out like
one thing you change it i can't figure
it out and that wastes time
[Music]
that's so lame
where are you at
[Music]
right the show because i literally
better go steal your electric guitar and
then i realize you're at somewhere
no no we're making beats though and i
really want to use it
what are you going to get back to
[Music]
oh okay sick for real
all right word
[Music]
how do i duplicate something to these
two to over here on this what
do we hit these two to over here
double loop
[Music]
can i just do something real quick
i'm just going
[Music]
to just i i get very annoyed with the uh
the metronome you know what i mean so
i'd rather just have something that
sounds a little bit closer to what i
actually like
all right i gotta call you yeah
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
thank you
[Music]
so
wait let me transfer over those effects
that we used
[Music]
we're going to add one
how do they do that thing in dubstep
where they like make you go faster
faster faster and then it drops
what do you mean
if you saw this like all right so let's
just start here let's just start here
and i'll
i've i made one dude watch what i'm
doing bro okay i'm making a bunch of
clips first one i'm gonna do this i'm
gonna turn off all of them and now this
is just this
[Music]
and then this one
you know you could go go get here
[Music]
it's just an exponential growth of the
frequency of these items yeah
and then you have something that stops
at some point and it changes and you
when you go here to press this next one
they're all different right
let's just let's just make a song it has
a drop everything else
yeah do it all right let's do it
okay
so that's a very good task though you're
like i just want to make a drop so the
song is only going to be a drop though
you realize that right rise and then
drop and that's the whole song
okay
[Music]
so
i need more bars
[Music]
i mean this is on youtube
wait what oh is this the 808 chord
[Music]
can i download a drum kit from
online yeah
well i mean because i don't have to
spend a lot of time making a drum kit
right now like i'd rather other things
[Music]
i was wondering
no actually i want you i want you to
wait did you see that oh wait did you
see that huh
[Music]
whenever first the page said like get
check out
oh
i just think
orange bro that's crazy that color can
do that to me i literally thought it was
about get because of the horn
no no i want you to edit drums the
reason why because i don't think you've
ever actually done this
[Music]
you mean making
well okay fine yeah but
[Music]
but wait but if i go to my packs like in
do i like chop and swing like bailey
i mean this is a very good way of
getting started actually like i don't i
don't know why i didn't start showing
you guys this i kind of think it's
cheating but i also do it sometimes
[Music]
take this loop
uh
better
[Music]
you got to remember to solo when you're
actually making curls like this right
and then you put it back in but like
with everything in you have way less
understanding of actually what sound is
changing
[Music]
so
what'd you do i duplicated the whip
twice when i added some extra ones for a
glitchy effect but it only plays every
eight so it's not like i'm making a
really significant part of the song but
i give it a little variation because
this thing gets so annoying
[Music]
this
but we have to pitch all this down as
well
why because it sounds better pitch down
why is that
because the high notes don't go with
it clash with what we're making
i i think that that thought is really a
local minimum and you'll find some other
way around that but right now that's
your like best solution or something
yeah but that's not it
that's not it itchy
[Music]
how can i add these in loop like so i
can see
all right so i'm gonna go to this right
i got a note
it's audio what it's audio what about
that this is an audio clip
so what does that mean that means that
there's no way that you could possibly
split up the audio such that it knew
which drums were which
yeah but can i take it and
chop it
[Music]
you're chopping the audio
well you can do that i've done that it's
fun
[Music]
okay so i want to hear them
in loop
[Music]
all
right was a club
[Music]
keep
is this the song
all right
um so i'm gonna do a new audio track
well actually you have one here and then
see how this is only one of them and i
have one slash two
i want i want the this is a good mic so
it's just stereo but
oh it's not this drop but this isn't
even the right song but
i will find it all right so now you're
recorded so now
um
now you're good so now it's just
whatever you say is recording
that's a lot of pressure yeah that's
what i'm saying that's why i don't like
doing it
isn't that crazy like
you could sample this though this would
be like super funny like you'll realize
like people think like things that are
not that funny like getting used like oh
my gosh you put such a goofy sound in
the song it's like not really that goofy
bro so i can just i can just say
anything yeah
potato salad no that's already taken
there's a song about that i don't know
so i can just say anything
yeah fresh avocados oh wait let me let
me say fresh oh my gosh avocado
wait i clipped do you see this this is
also a good thing for you to know yeah
staging like see how it turned from a
sine wave into a square wave there it
clipped
don't want the clip because you lose
information
you lose signal
all right we got
enough yeah press pause
whatever you say
so now you're going to move it into a
midi track right yeah that's what i'm
saying that's what i don't like
ctrl shift d
isn't that crazy like
you could sample this though this would
be like super funny like you'll realize
like people think and then drag it into
that click on midi tracks oh my gosh
it's like not really that bad
so to click on the actual track
top yeah wait oh you actually go to
there and then
yeah because see this is like this main
i can just say
yeah fresh avocados oh wait let me just
let me say fresh
avocado um
device
i'm also going to add you can see like
how some of the sounds are way louder
than other ones so what i'm going to do
is i'm going to go here and just
preliminarily add compression okay
because i i realize that voices are
something that you have to get right
because that's why i make instrumental
music because like when you get into
voices you get like oh music needs to be
hi-fi i need to sound this way
like it gets more precise
[Music]
sensitivity or not sensitivity really
just the start i want it like right here
[Music]
oh i see you wait what's what's that yes
what's this light highlighted part so
this is the start of your where it
starts
but wait wait
this is a good demonstration for look at
this slice by transient you know what a
transient is there's some algorithm for
determining you you know how to take the
derivative of the song right
or or a picture right it's literally
just the difference between its
neighbors the thing is what you can do
is figure out the slope and if that
slope is very high and you see a
sustained volume you know that this
allowed sound has occurred you can use
that as a transit you can use that as
something that you know something
occurred here that's why when they do
movies they chop there they do the cut
and they slap that thing down because
that's the audio they know to cut
they know to start right after that cut
like those are all intentional so what
you can do is you can slice by beat and
it'll do it like by a certain amount of
interval and then you can get a more
orderly kind of thing or you could do
manual and i think manual is actually
really fun and you'll probably have a
good time with this but you'd be like
oh wait let me go
and let's change the layout just so it's
more obvious
people think like things that are not
funny
yeah fresh avocados
avocado
wait a clip do you see this this is also
a good thing for you to know
[Music]
sine wave into a square wave there it
clipped yeah you don't want the clip
because you lose information
all right i'm the student all right
[Music]
not all of these are allowed yeah
so it's going to take these and put them
into a drum rack and what's cool about
this is that now like specifically
where's kato
he's like oh my gosh she puts a
and i can turn down its gain
independently of the other ones
avocado
so
i recorded all
it changed from that instrument to using
a drumroll can i see the time as well as
all the notes the i just want to see the
latter half of the the things that we
sliced yeah that's fine you already had
that so basically
you go to this one
yeah these are all the last ones i've
already taken
but let me change to this layout
[Music]
for it
thank you
[Music]
sure
hey
[Music]
they
hey
[Music]
i meant to duplicate
where is our audio
[Music]
what are you doing right now
i i duplicated the guitar and then i
made one that was pitched down
[Music]
so above it
where's the original guitar
is this one it's that one
they're not both playing are they
okay yeah
[Music]
hey
oh
[Music]
foreign
can we get more bars
let's just duplicate luke
um
just make
new
yeah make a new guitar loop
[Music]
everything
that's the thing you can ride just like
i do that all the time okay okay okay
so
now i can just play everything if i play
it'll play everything no because all the
clips have been stopped how do i start
the man
i have to tap these whichever ones you
want playing
look on here dude
this is a mirror of this
[Music]
look look this is a mirror of that
i don't know which ones we had playing
[Music]
so all the ones that are lit up you you
have clips
[Music]
all right
i'm gonna start with this
you have the track names too you like
remember which one is the guitar
i mean it's off time
[Music]
we should start with the audio probably
okay so i'm going to show you another
technique so i want to pitch all of the
samples in this drum rack up what am i
going to do i'm going to do it for 32 no
i work in [__] oh then or oh content
i work on time bro copy value so now
go here
this is a simpler this okay dude yeah i
got to make some hierarchy like things
these are all instruments when i when
when you like slice to drum rack you
take audio and make an instrument using
a german a drum max is an empty thing
that
is
able to take a bunch of simpler elements
simpler is an instrument
and you've never even used the sampler
before
sampler's a little deprecated i'd say
but like not really like samples some
really cool sounds you can get but
simpler is like very efficient
bro what you just threw a lot of stuff
information at me can we just get back
to the song
all right how do i pitch this
yes
[Music]
copy all to siblings
that's going to take that parameter that
you just changed and move it to all the
other simpler
simpler um
[Music]
because you know now like when you load
a drum rack when you load one of those
preset things it
has a bunch of different samples
[Music]
that would be so sick viral dude
actually that's huge i didn't realize
[Music]
going to say about everything sort of
coming to a head is that i've never been
necessarily like i feel like i'm really
just sort of like being a dick and like
playing myself with this comment but i
feel like i've never been super like
focused on the money
but like obviously i'm get i'm trying to
get money but really for the purposes of
just coming up with having more
opportunities to do cool creative things
that he didn't have the means to do
yeah exactly
that's why recognition is coolers
no i'm all about using like nothing and
doing amazing things with literally the
changes
those people amaze me
[Music]
all right we need more bars
so let me
duplicate this loop what do you mean
when you see more bars
[Music]
by the way i know you didn't do
well actually i guess i'm gonna port but
i used to be able to like
like
this camera would be pointing down so
that you could see me use the actual
device
[Music]
so
oh
word
i i never actually use this all right oh
my [__] god dude what holy [__] i
never actually like really pieced this
together because i never really had
anyone all right
[Music]
oh
word guy
in this video let's take a look at
ableton link and how you can set up ios
devices or even hardware devices to sync
with live
link synchronizes music will be
temporary phase across multiple apps and
even hardware link keysight is in sync
overload network to use link first
nations
life goes preferences another type of
link click the shutter button in the top
corner
facebook link
i'd like to use like this
is
oh that's cam that's not possible we
can't do that that would be insane could
you imagine dude
oh my god
it would be like it would be literally
like like co-op production that'd be
insane because like you both have two
computers
totally different places
but you have the same file that you're
using
and adding to
it's like that dude we should work on
that that's what google does dude no no
no no i'm saying like a very basic way
that like when i say abstract i mean
abstract as [__] but this just like
that would be give us so much knowledge
in how these companies run their [__]
because i have no idea how you order
those like events i mean obviously they
happen in time but like yeah that's all
like
computing
but that's what i'm saying i want to be
out of my element
i feel like you know what i
mean we can talk down to an rtg who
doesn't know how to use a computer it's
just kind of lame
[Music]
no
wait they're all using their own
computer
[Music]
i opened up a demo video we have to do
this
you have a phone you have an iphone you
we could just play together
all the problems we've been facing the
last 25 years on stage when trying to
synchronize hardware software any
musical instruments before we learn how
to set this up how it works let's
understand what problems we've faced
supposedly we could do very very
surprised computers or even hardware
using manual controls
now out of
systems interfaces
and also we have this master slave
relationship between the two machines
between hardware and software only the
master could
[Music]
oh
i did it again
how do you even
because if you press zero it goes to the
so turn on unlock oh yeah word yeah
really we'll shadow down the little one
is
we're going to listen to this for like a
minute then we're going to like go
outside
to like and do we have a little pipe the
point is like when last year i made
music like a ton of times with these two
guys right
it was so sick we'd be in the basement
of logan and we'd make something a bit
we're really [__] psyched about this
we go out smoking come back and play it
into this we'd be like no we'd be like
we have to change so much we know what
to do now
now we know how to make it sick
before it was chill now we know how to
make it sick all right
should we make a drop though before we
do that we'll make it drop and then come
back yeah make the preliminar yeah that
because that was the goal i agree you
make
you take driver all right here i'll i'll
show you what i do all right
[Music]
classic
welcome back to the schooltown
[Music]
welcome back to the school of sounds i'm
dj megaman
[Music]
today i'm going to teach you how to make
a simple dj drop inside of ableton live
we want you to do this because we want
to make sure you like ourselves
that thing is pretty sick
actually wait
don't sample this right now that's oh
what i'm trying to do is
i want to hear that sound
trouble with your music you don't know
what to do
oh my god
[Music]
i just want to listen to it no dude
we're watching something else right
there's a lot of things to do
making a simple dj drop is getting a
voice that says exactly what you wanted
to say in this case i got the crisco kid
to say dj megaman in the mix let's hear
what he sounds like without any effects
or compression on his voice
dj megaman in the
mix
okay so he sounds pretty good but to
make it more level and even this is not
a drop right now this is a [__] like
a a
dj mega man
that's just a that's just like a like
thanks again for watching the school of
sounds i'm dj megaman peace i mean that
was pretty sick though like i do want to
put it
wait is this a whole there's a whole
subsection of ableton videos that i
didn't know about
dude i love this guy
i never freeze
i haven't seen this one
[Music]
you really didn't need to see that yeah
oh yeah okay fine so we
know all right so we literally just
this video is not helpful whatsoever
what are you talking about the full song
is there
nothing is in like
what are you there's three okay there's
only three
i'm pretty sure this is the one that uh
i just feel like the like
the more logical one dude
come on dude please let me just do this
i i've done this a thousand times yeah
but this the first minute 35 this is him
making it yeah a minute 35 dude yeah but
we don't need the full thing we don't
need everything
well i mean to make a drop you'll
probably with your level of expertise
maybe like
a couple hours of contest
literally like sound design is a lecture
like a series of lectures like a class
sound design
a class but it's cold and it's fresh i
can send you a really good book that i
read can i get you a glass
you're not going to read the book
no
it's
[Music]
the unfortunate what the [__] is not the
original
that guy stole just because he said got
any grapes in it because that's what i
looked at because that's all i
remembered
[__] that guy
profiting off of that
[Music]
[Applause]
can i get you a glass
the duck said i'll
[Applause]
[Music]
oh you can use yeah you can use this got
any grapes
yeah yeah actually that'd be really cool
able to ableton like stock really
doesn't come with that much it's all
just the base tools and you know that's
like people like how do you ever pay
that much but the point is they also
release a ton of packs which you can
build and drop i feel like you should be
able to be like hey let's go to the
loops and see what they have like
[Music]
oh [__]
so you have a lot at your disposal just
in terms of audio but remember you can't
stand you have to sample this you can't
play it like you know what i'm saying
yeah it's audio
[Music]
but you know that all like in terms of
your cheating perspective like how much
you feel like you're making it there's
some satisfaction with like this is
almost done for you
hey got any grapes
we can make it from the meme page i
guess dude that'll be funny like sample
dean boy or some [__]
no no like for a party that'd be
hilarious you imagine hearing his voice
this one's pretty good
it's quick too
okay are you ready you do that
but also are you thinking about how you
would make this yourself
like you're right stop yeah they're
they're increasing some effect i can't
really tell what effect it is though no
no there's so many ways you can like
scan a filter over it first off you can
do two things you could have two notes
and play porta so it rises then pitch
right right that's the glide right yeah
exactly then
so then you could have a filter on top
and just slide it this way so when you
have hot white noise like that's what i
did for that symbol in our song
because i had that auto that filter
where it was kind of low and then it
rose up as it got before it went yeah
exactly yeah and so you could think
think if you made the attack on these
filters really really long you could
start to make
like really slow risers and start to
build them up yeah and then you just add
the drums on top and you really have
your formula yeah
that's why i don't really know what i do
because i don't do them
because it you know it is really like
i'm trying to blow up i i'm not trying
to call people out
because obviously
[Music]
so think about what they did think of
what they did
so they had two cents right wait they
have probably so it looks like they had
like two sine waves one that was doing
this thing for a long time and then
another one was going
like up top there was another sine wave
like play it again
and we just kind of went up a little bit
less but it was up higher like an
occupier it had a little bit of attack
and they just exported that audio
[Music]
yeah this could be the one
for this song dude i just think you'll
find that it's such a we can we can
modify it modify all right
all right let's smoke this bowl outside
no one's gonna call you for smoking a
bong outside you know what i mean
[Music]
all right i'm gonna show
i wouldn't choose either i'm going to
show you how to do something way cooler
than this
[Applause]
what's the date 5'4
isn't there something beware the 5th of
the 4th of may
no it's the ides of march
[Music]
i'm not tied in i'm not really locked
into this whole culture thing
all right like 15th march 15th
[Music]
all right so just because i don't want
to like crash this i'm going to go to a
new one but should you save it yeah of
course wait because you saw me
okay
let me get some more oh yeah
wow why
this okay anyways what i want to prelude
this with the um there's this thing
called max for live which is this
amazing way to [__] oh my god did you
do we are going to go slow down with
this and the line's gonna be like oh man
i really just can't make music anymore
because i called him i was like dude i
think alex's music is kind of better
than yours and he was like
shut the [__] up right no no but the
point is that you're like you're
spending way more time on it than him
like
you're gonna get better than him and
also the learning curve is very steep at
the beginning all right so do it yeah
let's make a max instrument
all right so it's gonna load up this
program maxwell live which is this
company cycling 74 that uh ableton
bought
and they're starting to integrate more
and more into ableton and it's this like
uh programming language kind of where
you can like take a signal and say oh
this is a you know sign and it repre
it's like a 400 hertz and then you can
do like times two on it but only if like
some logic and you could build these
paths of logic and people build
i went [__] crazy over the summer i
didn't even do that much cool stuff but
i went [__] nuts dude
so let me just because it's like wait
what does this thing do just wait
gonna make a drop right now
i'm not making a drop whatsoever but i
could show you how you can easily build
these risers with granularity like none
other
really this is a signal pro digital
signal processing dude like people don't
understand digital is like what we rely
on that and all of it you can just like
you have an array of numbers you can do
infinite calcul virtually infinite
calculations you have someone who likes
like like like figure expounding on the
the entire set like which we could do in
prince if we could do infinite
computations then we wouldn't need to
care about
uh computational complexity at all
i mean
no we would still well i mean no but the
the point would be that time wouldn't
exist because the financial markets
someone would still want to win
so they would come up with something
smarter
right like
like no one's just hey we're just going
to keep running this oh
you force anything no i agree yeah okay
so let's okay
so let's make a
where's cycle
i just forget it
oh no i won the other cycle
what the [__]
sinusoidal oscillator all right let me
specify
frequency hurts yeah so you can see in
when i
i have my arguments here so i can do
like a
so that way so let's say
[Music]
that's perfect fit no not perfect that's
a an octave right yeah
[Music]
oh
okay i'm not like
good at this by the way like i haven't
done this in a minute but i just want to
show you that like we should spec doing
this because this will give us a way
better
like like this is like oh hey we're good
at photoshop
this is like no we're [__] signal
processing people like that is way
smarter way cooler like just more intel
it's building this hierarchy not these
hierarchies the one difference is that
the ableton live not able to max like
it uh
lets you view the time much better i
think than this no no you're you're
never using this necessarily to create
whole songs like textures sounds all
these other things the point is that
this tool is really like
the tool of all tools like you can
actually script in c plus plus in this
you can do a whole bunch of crazy stuff
okay so
wait look at the go to that wait no no
this is what you got to do that's all
right that i don't need to like make the
make the what you want to do is um
dude i'm going to force you to make this
[__] drop before the end of tonight
my life depends on it
anyway i actually don't want this i want
like uh
they have like really easy ways to just
like
where's the manual to the manual
all right fine let's do this it'll show
you how to do cool [__]
we should both do this oh also i can
generate video with this i've done video
edit like on my on my instagram page
dude i don't want to learn an entirely
new app right now like i spent so much
time learning this ableton live
i don't want to learn it like no dude
like you're just starting me from no i'm
not no we're not gonna actually do this
i'm about to close this the point is
once we leave and come back this is
going to be close we're going to drop i
just want to like get it we're actually
doing the drop yeah first thing we're
doing yes we're doing the draw but i
just want to like
should we just roll a j dude i don't
like j's but it's convenient i don't
want to get that high though
no because like
if i don't want to do something entirely
new while like
blaze but i can like manipulate sound
while already well like you like what's
dope about being you you have a pretty
good understanding of ableton by the way
like i can tell like you understand
tracks instruments audio effects those
things and that's really all you need
and i'm here like whenever there's like
a weird conflict but when you're super
high you're like i love this sound
i [__] with this yeah
all right let me close all this [__] i
like i'm much better at the editing than
i have the writing part if that makes
sense no i understand but obviously the
editing is easier
is so sick though let me let me just go
through some of the objects that i used
to play with
oh you can do some crazy delay stuff
with buffers i did some insane reverb
things
oh yeah
[Music]
oh it does sound different yeah i was
right
with c verb it sounds different
oh can i do
a oh yeah yeah let me just
i would always build these here right
oh yeah
uh what is it oh it's yeah i can keep it
a better volume
let's see this thing
why does this not ever
i don't understand why the
i guess oh well oh no oh oh wait is it
do i have to sample
no i wouldn't right because the input to
this
oh it takes a sim yeah signal float
symbol wait does oh do i need to
literally do this no that would be
ridiculous
oh and that's the phase okay well i mean
i could jesus
let's do some crazy stuff i used to do
way more insane stuff though
oh this is cool comb
filtering wow it takes in so many
arguments
whoa
that's sick
i wasn't expecting that at all
oh wait i want to set this to
no i guess not it's not
i just
wanna you use this to make a drop no i'm
not using i'm just like very excited to
be using this again
[Music]
that's sick
that's so funny
tell them now tell her yeah tell him
don't believe he comes down you know if
they come themselves
um we're doing like digital manipulation
on this like
sound wave
all right let's go back to your well
okay
but you're
you see that is like one of the sickest
things of all time right
oh i didn't name it else i didn't need
to rename it
so actually let me yeah so let me just
while i cancel this stuff
but yeah
like come on that is that is insane you
could just think about the options like
if you connect the input of one cycle to
another cycle then you get this
because the pitch is all the frequency
is dependent on another sine wave
so you so you take you take a cycle
and the thing is freaking the thing is
alternating either between uh minus one
and one or zero and one i don't know but
you can do it you can do a thing that
does a signal to float that like samples
it at a certain way and you can see what
it goes to but let's just say that
because like assignment goes from minus
one to one and what you do is you say
sign or yes cycle
this is a
garbage pattern
dude i'm not understanding no way okay
hey look look cycle is just
this means it creates a signal
very obvious right with the wave all
right so
you this takes in an input which is the
frequency if we take in and it has two
nodes here and has one output which is
the same well i guess it has one output
so what you do is you connect the
frequency
thing to another cycle
but what
that has is that's going between -1 and
1 and what you really want to do is say
times 100 or something and then then
connect it to there because now you have
something that will alternate between
minus 100 and 100 which in reality is
just the absolute value of 100 100 or uh
but like but it's like still oscillating
i mean so like
yeah it's like that or yeah
yeah the absolute value of the sunlight
but effectively the same thing that's
pretty sick that's pretty sick like i
see there's a lot more power with that
but it's insane actually i'll show you
because i haven't showed that many
people
um a non-standard unit measure i i
didn't even realize that a non kind of
sounds like a non dude i never really
a non standardized universe one of my
other band cam pages
experiments because i was like learning
and i was like these are like
experiments oh you didn't realize it
sounds like your [__] name yeah i
didn't realize it
one of these is cool and actually none
of that
this is all done with that program
[Music]
but all the other sounds are done in it
oh yeah i'm saying dude he's gonna get
way better than you so fast
he's learning so much more dude
i think i might get better than you at
certain aspects of it there's no way i'm
gonna be better than you making an
entire song from scratch
[Music]
i'm
like
before i do that
so
[Music]
i only found out about them recently
they like do these like pop-up esque
shows or you buy ticket in advance and
they don't let you know who's playing or
where it's at that
is so
i made like 50 bucks tonight though he
was 100 bucks that's sick
but uh dude it's way easier to blow that
is so fun
you get a play to make money and email
vocals are just better all in general
objectively
um
yeah
that was the conversation he was like
trying to get me
[Music]
he's just
now there's like a gif
[Music]
dude that is such a life can you just
like like show that he's just like yeah
i live in his best life that is insane
he was saying he went to uchicago i was
talking he went to chicago as an
undergrad and he's like the reason i
wanted to grow up and come back and drop
this cross all right
because i wish that this class was
available when i was in just you know
[Music]
want to smoke but like he really got me
thinking who was this
about what that's he told me to work and
i was like bro and then ellis literally
gave him the second after he called i
was like
i got i made forces to study a little
yeah yeah i studied a lot today actually
all right how long did you do i went to
career art study
is that all the study you did starting
with me i woke up
called you
left
came back
pulled in
well you came back just out of here as
well i was working with joe and julius
um
[Music]
can i try to make anything do that
how my thoughts were maybe different
than if i were i was thinking about it
but like honestly i'm a little music guy
like dude what are you doing
oh my god all right so
let me show you this
go go thing
you guys are down here not even any
moves on the weed i come down here dude
not making any moves on the weed if
you're just looking at it sitting there
the balls are sitting there
yeah yeah of course that's why we gonna
[Music]
can we just do that now please want some
dirty dude what are you doing you're
doing nothing
you have ableton why did i give you
ableton
what i was going to ask
if we're using the same changes
[Music]
yeah definition
because
when it starts
there's no drm right you give me that
uh the the the thing that says oh is
this the right account what does this
have to offer
yeah
no but i'm not talking about the
authorization it's more about the fact
that using the same account
well i guess we both obviously we've
both been locked in at the same time
could this new setup be digitized this
is all digital this thing produces no
sound by itself this thing yeah
no that's not what i meant i meant like
like like could you make this setup
on like i just saw an ipad there could
you just have this all projected onto an
ipad that you just plugged in and you
just hit it like with the ipad or does
it need like this like big
thing
so what you're really asking about is
how midi works so maybe maybe i am no
you don't need that no anything you do
you doing this you can do on the
computer you can do it on an ipad okay
no i don't know what do you think it's
more fun no no the functionality that
you can do on ableton is not the set of
thing because they do not have an um an
ableton version for ios they just have
proprietary this is not ableton someone
else made this thing and it happens to
work with ableton link but what he's
really asking about is theoretically
like can you linked it like can you
chill
you're so on edge like these are
triggers right there's nothing intrinsic
about the actual like i don't know robot
right now
[Music]
right
again
one say the guy that's actually good
yeah yeah
um
we took the lead in the very beginning
and never gave it up
isaac had them he was he i thought he
was choking it just he kills himself he
had to really dig deep yeah he had to
gather it up
right that's where there's two kills on
the side
and just rob as a character like just
destroys like players
don't have any experience
[Music]
yeah the punish game is just solid it's
just it's just but also the pressure
like you have to make them [__] up
you're a bait and punish character oh
definitely definitely
this guy you just overrun them
yeah that's exactly the best place you
[__] up like they can just say you
manage it and like the worst that you're
going to be i have to not [__] up like
the way
[Music]
no definitely not what do you mean
definitely not like i i don't think i'm
gonna do it tomorrow why dude like i
have two midterms dude like they're
different right
i'm just saying like i i i i it would
take like 20 minutes max it would take
like 20 minutes max now
yeah so i'm saying it's just two to four
the bellman equation says otherwise
all right so the first element on the
drop
drops
but you know how the thing is right now
you notice that you don't actually have
any drums
whoa did you hear that
i didn't hear that without the utx
wait
[Music]
out what is doing that
i want an overdrive probably
[Music]
the point being
these
[Music]
the envelope follower which is
the frequency
[Music]
all right
so what you want to do is you want to
automate
what's that kick
[Music]
this is the thing we need to accelerate
different
things like that can create the sense of
tension i'm trying to think like what
thing do i want to do that to and
what and in what way
maybe it's not that maybe it's not that
we have to try it out with all of it to
how do i do
no this not there so now i've selected
this if i press enter no it that plays
it but select shift enter
i'm sure what i'm trying to do is use
the only only the keyboard because i've
never actually tried to do it don't
limit yourself like that right now we're
already limiting ourselves by doing
something we don't know how to do
all right nice nice nice let's see you
see what what i can do is i
so this one was like
this
this one was like
this and then that one was like this so
now
i'm not sure
oh
[Music]
oh yeah this one this one yeah and then
ctrl d and then just
oh wait
play the one at the
[Music]
it needs to bottom
and then
[Music]
yeah
no but then you want everything to drop
out and then come back in
[Music]
the follow action
yeah so change the it to four bars no no
yeah
oh this no this yeah
so four
all right wanna hear it yeah should i
hear it in context
remember the original one the one that
was like just the deep one that's this
one let's put that following the drop
we need to put a follow-up
but then we should just click this one
[Music]
and what you could also do is if you
yeah
[Music]
or you can do
this further down do this do this those
high sounds are annoying
[Music]
we don't want no tie sounds
when you see like a dj up there doing
that that's what he's doing he's just
turning a filter up yeah
that makes sense
um
so then we could automate turning this
up during this right
yeah
wait yeah you can automate anything
you can also so there's a distinction
that you can be made too is like you can
automate in time or you can automate the
clip
you know what i mean yeah and then
there's also modulation but that's just
modulating your automation that's not
really like that important yet i don't
really do it that much but i should
probably should be better at it
where are we rolling now they're so high
this is gonna sound sick but you want it
to start to sound sick now we should we
should make this part um all right
actually this part just doesn't sound it
doesn't sound right no obviously i was
doing it arbitrarily yeah i was doing it
for demo purposes we should fix it
i would try is that it was probably just
not the same sample like if you look at
what midi note was played or being
played here
[Music]
yeah that was the issue i knew it was
transposed in some way but i no no this
is transposing i'm not trying i'm not
transposing them are you are you just
changing the pitch no i'm not changing
the pitch because these are sampled i'm
changing which slice is being played
oh
yeah what
if it were like this then i'd be
changing the pitch classic mode like
slicing you had the only way that you
can order all the slices is through midi
how else would it know which one is
which alright so now
um i'm just saying i knew that the note
was wrong that's why i was saying that
yeah right yeah you were different yeah
no you were right about that um
where's the
oh wait i want to select all of them
they just added this by the way
like multi-clerk editing
oh word that's sick
yeah ableton
we can even increase up a scale for the
pitch of these
that's something that's done so we don't
need to make them all the same now but
let's try it hearing them the same note
you know what i'm saying
they are they are the same right now
yeah but often they'll go up
[Music]
yeah i knew i forgot i was like no i
didn't forget anymore
probably such a low it's such a low
frequency what you'll find just like
yeah
but with this here like
it sounds a little bit closer to the
frequency range that you're like
thinking it's like would be there for a
draw it just needs to it needs to
increase in pitch as we get more and
more repeated i think well i think you
probably don't want to have your your
drums go up in pitch but you'll probably
have your other instruments like risers
symbols other things because like like
when you watch like people like this is
me like actually making a song like they
have like 40 layers yeah right so they
have like five different sounds
this needs to be this one needs to be um
two
where's loop actions
first follow
yes
i'm just saying like how funny would it
be if like you blow up and alarms like
i don't know like ten thousand monthly
listeners it just got a humor dude three
unions
all right that one's clearly too long
that one should be um
wait
this one is four
this one needs to be two
16.
wait
yeah you got it you did it
right and it's cool that that when i
first did this and i realized i'm not
something's wrong it should be like this
way then you just want this at two
yeah you just wanted that too yeah two
two one one
four two one one
no but the last one's half remember
oh the last one's half
you have to understand that distinction
though
in time this one is still one measure
right sick
what's that
uh oh so i so when i made this
i did like
like rhythmic things on top of it which
uh
for this one i deleted half of them at
the bottom
and this one's grayed out too
so i can do it for this one
oh wait this one
[Music]
so oh okay wait
do you know about did i explain what
return tracks are yeah it's like the out
right so return tracks take in other
tracks
okay yeah
right you said it to me
where's there are things we recorded
okay yeah can you click on this
control r what's that
type of rename
what was it this is avocado
avocado
fresh
what wait no is it free
i changed
[Music]
it's off me
well that's only because all right
so i actually know what it is
if you look here
like
wait this one
[Music]
is
well really what it is no but it really
is is that these
this will make it sound different and
you'll be like what the [__]
i'm so annoyed
that's closer in time
yep what
can we can we actually right now before
we go we've been listening this for so
long i'm honestly kind of tired of it
can we listen to because that that that
one that's two chords like over and over
again yeah but can can you find some
songs on spotify that are like go just
click click on spotify
or even the scholarship
anyways uh and then find some songs that
we can listen to that have sick drops
that you're like going for because then
i can have more context as to what you
want
i gotta get a charger in a minute
um
[__]
well one issue would you be if you like
if your phone died and you just like
didn't that happened a couple nights ago
and it was not good damn that's
certainly
like it was also really late just yeah
all right um
wait why is it so handy yeah my computer
is just [__] donate
[__]
dude look at this
correct way to roll a j
no weed inside
oh hermitude dude are you kidding me
don't turn off this i'm not turning it
off i'm gonna have to i always had to
keep unless i'm like
yeah
the buzz is one of the best drops of any
song by the way
it's a sick song
[Music]
all right so wait so have you started to
listen to music when you listen to music
are you thinking about like how they
made it i'm trying to
just think about you have this flat line
and and
yeah i guess you have really three axes
but you're trying to figure out like
it's the synth it's not the drums it's
the synth yeah they're adding sentences
[Music]
but that's what it is
and then you put in the base
well yeah you you did the base cut you
did that
[Music]
yeah but i
did the thing with the base that i was
supposed to do
well you don't have to you can do it
with the bait people do it any sort of
way but if you're trying to emulate if
you're trying to copy then yeah i kind
of emulate him
he's only got me into like electronic
music at all
yeah
wow dude
what i don't know i just think it's like
yeah i don't know i don't know why i
really like that
he's kind of funny no i like flu no i i
think boom is dope
i can't even say the exact song it was
it's not all of that
i actually want to use
uh
that's not on spotify
[Music]
that has a high pass filter on it or low
pass filter on it
and then that has an envelope on it that
is no dependent and he also has another
truck with a facelift
enemy is unison on the center
and i can show you what unison does but
it basically duplicates the wave and
then it has some phase to it so that
they're offset
if that makes any sense
that makes so yeah it also has a filter
that slowly filters out
the these
[Music]
and he has that resonance
because of how he plays with dynamics
right like yeah things come in and out
very quickly like
yeah yeah when you say you can feel it
like the physics of it is very real
[Music]
they're very like tangible
all right find another song
uh because i want to keep deconstructing
as many songs as possible really so you
can start thinking about what is going
on because i i think when you're
listening
you know heater by flume no i don't know
oh really
i don't listen to a lot of music
[Music]
that's easy all that all this sounds
right now i know how to do it
he has a big pressure on some rear town
and then he has some water sound that he
put some stuff on
oh he pitched them up and then he had
some random panning on them
[Music]
he made a drop out of [__]
noise
listen dude
do you feel it building
[Music]
yeah
but i mean like
well i used to listen to dubstep a lot
like this is not like crazy
you
[Music]
it's weird what's weird to me is that
you know when the drop is supposed to
come
that's weird dude
like not weird but it's like that's what
i'm trying for hold on let me get a
charger
[Music]
uh
yes
[Music]
oh
so
[Music]
i just
oh
[Music]
so
right yeah of course
[Music]
you gotta watch this and complete it so
tell me when you're ready i'm not trying
to rush i'm just saying like
this song this this video is insane
he made his own language
this guy is literally in like
no he just he's like the
multi-dimensional thing like kind of
like popular hello
my name
going to show you is
to make a song
he doesn't show you whatsoever but there
is a
[Music]
that sound is already complete like
that's not just what comes back
he's not even playing
[Music]
this is so sick
and now to put it all together
[Applause]
[Music]
oh that's a sick song squash okay but
let me show you the actual then we're
gonna get but like
the actual one dude
[Music]
so people sent in him a bunch of random
audio
[Music]
send me sounds people
grassroots
[Music]
um i think we're live so i'm just gonna
start i'm wise um this is crowdsourced
this is episode four um
[Music]
thanks
india for these ones
she says
that's a dj zano
is that one of your own cakes
yeah yeah let's go
out to yo soy pablo
[Music]
no this is insane
we're witnessing it guys
wonder why you wouldn't want to
who was that from sorry
i don't know that's like a meme on four
times oh yeah
that's kind of tired
[Music]
in fact he says 96 bpm a major
atmospheric vox sample that i chopped
out of 70's vocals
[Music]
see how he modulated the speed of the
lfo on the voice
on the filter
on which the yellow if you have an auto
filter let's go to a chart what which
this has an auto filter um and i went
from instead of instead of oops uh yeah
instead of sync or it went to sync
he went to that he switched them and he
modulated that
[Music]
speed all you got to do
that's what he did
[Music]
oh the way he's using this program
he has no idea it's so funny but i love
him
we have good noise
[Music]
he said he didn't know how to play keys
all right
all
[Music]
the process by the way right started
with like since we have
session view we can just do it in loops
but since reason doesn't really have a
session view he just made the song
starting on one of the actual timeline
and just expanded the loop range
and like i kind of want to implement
some stuff like i want to start with the
synth and make like the synth like i uh
and some voice samples
so take it easy on me yeah oh you're new
to it i'm new to this i'm way more new
to it than you bro i was being sarcastic
i never even heard a song before
you
yeah yeah
but not enough time on like
oh composition yeah competition
but the thing is you also realize that
that's overall a harder task
yeah that's what elon's really good at
well yeah and his producer
what yeah and jeff his journey really
his drummer does all their production
well yeah but we're doing production
mainly like that's the quality
no but i mean
organize well yeah i guess yeah i wanted
to because of songs you're right
oh my god
all right let's start with the synth new
song
i'm so hot
how do i make this dude on uh
[Music]
all right uh let's add
the track
uh
well you actually no no add device
because right now you're on the basic
midi track so it's fine let's start with
the drop just a kick
you just want the camera yeah just so i
thought you said start with the sun oh
yeah sorry let's start with the synth
but yeah we should probably need to beat
right
no no start with the synths
and then we'll add something on top oh
yeah because i would rather because
think about like yeah the staging the
pouting like
just like uh
yeah so much dude just like
i get a call
ethan told me
oh [__]
[Music]
[Laughter]
i'm trying to figure out this
composition first let me just work on
this composition dude
[Music]
no
um
[Music]
no
[Applause]
[Music]
do
um
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
that's it
oh guys
[Music]
actually
is this this might sound [__] up
do you want to produce a lot
i i kind of want to chill a little bit
but also i do think it's important to
not have me here
like i'm here for almost all of it and
i'd rather you do some exploration
without my input
is that true
[Music]
so
hmm
[Music]
so
hmm
[Music]
you
um
[Music]
so
[Laughter]
[Music]
do
um
[Music]
so
foreign
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
you
mm-hmm
[Music]
so
[Applause]
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
foreign
do
[Music]
so
[Applause]
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
so
to
[Music]
um
[Laughter]
[Music]
hmm
um
[Music]
oh
so
[Music]
you hear it
yeah
it's all right it's not great it's not
great i'm getting there
[Music]
what's up
did you start over is this still it this
is still the same what did you spend the
most time on i get streaming so i can
check
i'm sure
dude
look at this isn't that sick oh man we
just gotten such good quality streams
what did you spend the most time on
i'm not sure
what are you hyped about
i'm not about how i just got the wave
table to sound
all right let me just hear the wave too
obviously wait
oh sick
oh there's so many effects on here wait
change this to
oh that's great that's great
oh
wait
what's on it
[Music]
i
it's so many things
[Music]
all right don't [__] with it don't [__]
with it
[Music]
but you gotta quantize
what you're going for is like i know
what you're going for and the function
is not
do you want that that like a synthetic
because this one could be considered on
b if you extend out your mouth like it
could be done
done
done done
[Music]
you want you want this one
or something wait
just clone has
[Music]
okay so actually right click
and then go to quantize settings so play
around with this
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
do
[Applause]
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
do
uh
[Music]
do
stuff
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
bye
do
[Music]
so
do
[Music]
yo it's taking up way too much cpu oh
yeah wave table doesn't here let me do
something
well it actually doesn't necessarily
wave table what you should do
stop wait yo
watch this right you stop all your clips
you play one of them see what the cpu is
like then you start isolating which of
these amps amp with this takes a lot but
this will decrease some just let's just
turn off all of them i know it does
change it a lot
it's now down to about 30 right that's
pretty significant now if we did that
for all of them and i'm not i'm saying
you turn them back on it i'm not
actually changing any of the little
dials
turn this one off this is have any midi
on it right now you can figure out how
much
wait why oh okay
because i did that last time
oops
okay so
pretty look yeah attention doesn't use a
lot
but even just turning these off like
and then
turning literally like [__]
and the thing about this is that that's
not even just like all of it like
i think
oh no i think that is old okay so yeah
do the um
so point being say donate
donate
[Music]
dude come up watching this crazy movie
oh also wait do you know to stop the
stream
no wait you don't know how to stop this
okay it's okay
i'm gonna go watch the movie and i want
to stop it when the actual stuff stops
so i don't have to edit the video okay
okay i'm just saying you know how to do
it right you just literally open up
this program
and then click stop streaming okay
but call me when you're
like i'm gonna watch done movie but just
if you're still up i don't know
[Music]
so
um
[Music]
so
you